Let’s learn about artificial intelligence

You can ask Amazon’s virtual assistant, Alexa, for a lot of things. To play music, read the news or tell you the
weather. You can even ask her to define “artificial intelligence.”

“Artificial intelligence,” Alexa says, “is the ability of a computer program or a machine to think or learn.” What Alexa
 fails to mention is that she herself is a form of artificial intelligence.

Artificial intelligence, or AI, is all around us. Phone navigation apps and self-driving cars use AI to plan their
routes. Streaming services use AI to suggest films, while online shops use it to suggest products. AI also powers search
 engine results and virtual translators. Basically, AI is behind any device solving a problem that typically requires
 human brainpower.

Much of today’s AI is based on machine learning. This is a computer science technique that allows computers to learn
from examples or experience. Take AlphaGo, for instance. This AI famously beat human champions at a complex game called
Go. AlphaGo learned to play by studying 30 million Go moves that people had made. The AI then honed its skills by
playing against different versions of itself.

AI has the power to do a lot of good. Thinking machines could help diagnose diseases or treat patients. Online AI
moderators could screen hateful posts or flag fake news stories. Artsy AI is giving the world new paintings, songs and
other creative works.

Still, in a lot of ways, today’s AI is nowhere near as smart as people. Most AI must study vast amounts of data to
learn anything. And these systems often struggle to learn abstract concepts or explain their decisions. In some cases,
using AI may even cause harm. AI systems can be encoded with bias against certain groups of people. That causes problems
 when those AIs are used to judge job applications or decide prison sentences. Plus, training AI devours a lot of
 electricity. That may harm the environment.

In short: AI is revolutionizing many aspects of our lives. But like any world-changing technology, it must be used
responsibly.

By Maria Temming
August 31, 2021 at 6:30 am
